== Player information ==

This mod introduces some new concepts for the ball mod, which are described below.

;Shotgun
: This is the ball. You can catch the ball. If you have a ball, you can't use any other weapon. The shotgun ammo reflects the time in seconds you can keep the ball before automatic shooting.
;Ninja
: This weapon is new for the ball mod. It replaces the old '/goalkeeper' chat command and provides a faster way to get a goalkeeper. On special maps, multiple goalkeepers are possible now.
;Goalkeeper
: The goalkeeper has multiple weapons, including the ninja mode. Hitting another player with the ninja will give you the ball. Goalkeeper do not have the jump limitation.
;Health
: By default the health is regenerating. Normal weapon hits will reduce your health. If your health reaches 0, you are stunned for some time.
;Armor
: On some maps you can pickup armor. Armor does not work against normal weapon attacks. Instead it reflects the bonus time to keep the ball for a longer time.
;Hammer
: As usual, you can get the ball from another player by using the hammer.
;Other weapons
: All other weapons make normal damage to tees and can stun them.

== Server settings ==

Some settings are in number of ticks. 1 second = 50 Ticks.

To avoid a disappearing ball on client side, you should set the shotgun_lifetime appropriate:
 tune shotgun_lifetime 1000000
 tune shotgun_curvature 10
 tune shotgun_speed 700

{|
! Option
! Default
! Value Range
! Description
|-
|sv_ball_multi
|0
|0-1
|With Multiball support enabled, the shotgun respawns regularly. Every player can keep a maximum of one ball. All other balls disappear.
|-
|sv_ball_goal_respawn
|1
|0-1
|Respawn all players after scoring.
|-
|sv_ball_respawn
|300
|0-100000
|Ball respawn time after scoring in ticks.
|-
|sv_ball_decay
|10
|0-100
|Ball bounce speed decaying. With a high value, the ball slows down faster.
|-
|sv_health_regen
|75
|0-10000
|Ticks between regenerating health.
|-
|sv_health_stunned
|200
|0-10000
|Number of ticks you are stunned when health is down to 0
|-
|sv_ball_base_keep
|150
|0-1000000
|Number of ticks you can keep the ball before automatic shooting.
|-
|sv_ball_armor_keep
|25
|0-1000000
|Number of ticks that are added to the ball keep time per armor you have.
|-
|sv_ball_lifetime
|90
|0-1000000
|Ball lifetime in seconds when no player touches the ball
|-
|sv_physical_start_vel
|100
|0-100
|How much influence does the tee velocity have on the projectile velocity. 100 = physically correct. 0 = no influence (vanilla teeworlds).

== Ball map development ==

The new entities are nearly equivalent to the new ones. You just have to change some things, like replacing the grenade-pickup through the shotgun and replace goalkeeper spawns. In the following I will describe all entities found in entities.png.

* Kill players of red team.
* Kill players of blue team.
* Goal of red team.
* Goal of blue team.
* Border for goalkeeper of red team.
* Border for goalkeeper of blue team.
* Goal of red team which kills players. This is necessary to enable slam dunks.
* Goal of blue team which kills players. This is necessary to enable slam dunks.
* This tile is solid only for balls, so they bounce at this tile.
* Exactly like the above tile, but additionally kills players.

At the bottom of the entities, in the pickup area:
* Shotgun = ball.
* Right of laser rifle is the spawn for red and blue goalkeeper. Don't use the empty ninja spawn.
